Multi tenant privatelink document framework. (#2806)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/get-started/privatelink/about-private-link.md

---
title: "About PrivateLink"
id: about-private-link
description: "Configuring PrivateLink for AWS"
sidebar_label: "About PrivateLink"
---

> ## What is PrivateLink?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: sugg:
- a page title followed by an heading is not good for our SEO -- shows the heading instead of the first sentence
- remove redundancy; not that different than page title
- a title followed by another title with no content in between is a flag

> PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).

Reviewer: i believe we are going with `data platform` instead of `data warehouse` . this was part of the work that went into updating this page https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/supported-data-platforms 

suggest fixing all instances in your 3 new pages.

> PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).
```

> PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. To learn more, you can refer to [AWS PrivateLink technology](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).
```

Reviewer: sugg:
- more concise when "here" is not the link text

> PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).
```

> The initial release of support for AWS PrivateLink features integration with the following data warehouse providers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud supports these data platforms that you can use the AWS PrivateLink feature with: 
```

Reviewer: sugg: a tiny bit more concise

- Redshift
- Snowflake

> - Databricks

Reviewer: should Databricks be removed here too?

Author: Adding databricks content now

> ## Configuring PrivateLink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure PrivateLink
```

Reviewer: sugg: titles should not be a gerund. shorter for a cleaner rightbar (page toc). there are some exceptions like "Troubleshooting"

fix all in your 3 new pages

> Customers on all supported platforms will have to contact the dbt support team to complete the integration. It is not a self-service feature at this time. Ensure that the subject contains "Multi-tenant PrivateLink" in some form. Please allow 1-2 business days for our teams to complete the setup on our side. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to contact the dbt Cloud support team to complete the integration. It is not a self-service feature at this time. Ensure that the subject contains "Multi-tenant PrivateLink" in some form. Please allow 1-2 business days for our teams to complete the setup on our side. 
```

Reviewer: might be good to add an email address in this paragraph. it will go well with the "Ensure that the subject contains" ask

> ### Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up
```

> dbt will provision the infrastructure pieces to ensure there are PrivateLink endpoints for a given account. Enabling this will ensure connections can be configured as “private” and will only communicate with the DWH over a PrivateLink. Once enabled, there will be two available DWH connection types in dbt Cloud: public and private. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt provisions the infrastructure pieces to ensure there are PrivateLink endpoints for a given account. Enabling this ensures connections can be configured as _private_ and only communicates with the data platform over a PrivateLink. Once enabled, there are two available data platform connection types in dbt Cloud: public and private. 
```

Reviewer: sugg: present tense

> Public connections are the classic connections that work today which communicate with the data warehouse over the public internet. Private connections are secured by PrivateLink and will always guarantee that all connections to the DWH are secured via AWS PrivateLink. Private endpoints are configured by dbt support on the backend once the infrastructure team provisions all the required services. Reach out to them with your organization name and which instance it's hosted in (EMEA, NA, AU).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public connections are the classic connections that work today which communicate with the data warehouse over the public internet. Private connections are secured by PrivateLink and will always guarantee that all connections to the data platform are secured with AWS PrivateLink. dbt Cloud support configures the private endpoints on the backend once the infrastructure team provisions all the required services. Please contact them with your organization name and which instance it's hosted in (such as EMEA, NA, and AU).  
```

Reviewer: sugg:
- i don't like using "please" very much in product docs but this might a good use case here
- avoid latin words

Provide the support team with the following information: 

- dbt Cloud Account ID

> - Data Warehouse (Snowflake, Redshift, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data platform (such as Snowflake and Redshift)
```

> - PrivateLink Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PrivateLink name
```

> - Number of Endpoints - Most customers need one but if you have multiple warehouses or projects that require their own PrivateLink, you may need multiple endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Number of endpoints &mdash; Typically you only need one but if you have multiple warehouses or projects that require their own PrivateLink, you may need multiple endpoints.
```

> - Any additional information specific to your DWH. See the setup guides for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any additional information specific to your data platform. 
```

Instructions for configuring the various DWH providers are unique. The following guides outline the steps:

- [Redshift](/redshift-privatelink)
- [Snowflake](/snowflake-privatelink)

> ### Configuring new endpoints with PrivateLink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure new endpoints with PrivateLink
```

> Once support has completed the configuration, you can bgin creating new connections using PrivateLink: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once dbt Cloud support completes the configuration, you can begin creating new connections using PrivateLink: 
```

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Create new project** → select the supported DWH (Snowflake/Databricks/Redshift). 

> 2. You will see two radio buttons: **Public** and **Private.** Select **Private**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Private** for a private connection.
```

> 3. Select the private endpoint from the dropdown (this will automatically populate the hostname/account field).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the private endpoint from the dropdown. When you do this, dbt Cloud automatically populates the hostname/account field.
```

---
title: "About PrivateLinks"

> id: privatelinks

Author: ```suggestion
id: about-private-link
```

description: "Configuring PrivateLinks for AWS"
sidebar_label: "About PrivateLinks"
---

## What is PrivateLink?

> PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to dbt Cloud multi-tenant over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).

Author: ```suggestion
PrivateLink enables you to connect your data warehouse (DWH) hosted on AWS, in any region, to a dbt Cloud multi-tenant environment over the AWS backbone using the PrivateLink technology. PrivateLink allows dbt Cloud customers to meet security and compliance controls as it restricts information shared between dbt Cloud and the DWH from reaching the public internet. You can read more about AWS PrivateLink technology [here](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/).
```

The initial release of support for AWS PrivateLink features integration with the following data warehouse providers:

- Redshift
- Snowflake
- Databricks

## Configuring PrivateLink

> Customers on all supported platforms will have to contact the dbt support team to complete the integration. It is not a self-service feature at this time. Ensure that the subject contains "Multi-tenant PrivateLink" in some form. Please allow 24-48 hours for our teams to complete the setup on our side. 

Author: ```suggestion
Customers on all supported platforms will have to contact the dbt support team to complete the integration. It is not a self-service feature at this time. Ensure that the subject contains "Multi-tenant PrivateLink" in some form. Please allow 1-2 business days for our teams to complete the setup on our side. 
```

---
title: "About PrivateLink"

> id: about-private-link

Author: ```suggestion
id: about-privatelink
```

Provide the support team with the following information: 

- dbt Cloud Account ID
- Data platform (such as Snowflake and Redshift)
- PrivateLink name
- Number of endpoints &mdash; Typically you only need one but if you have multiple warehouses or projects that require their own PrivateLink, you may need multiple endpoints.
- Any additional information specific to your data platform. 

Instructions for configuring the various DWH providers are unique. The following guides outline the steps:

- [Redshift](/redshift-privatelink)
- [Snowflake](/snowflake-privatelink)
- [Databricks](/databricks-privatelink)

### Configure new endpoints with PrivateLink

Once dbt Cloud support completes the configuration, you can begin creating new connections using PrivateLink: 

> 1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Create new project** → select the supported DWH (Snowflake/Databricks/Redshift). 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Create new project** → select the supported data platform (Snowflake/Databricks/Redshift). 
```
